index.md, before:

---
title: Singularity Hub Documentation
permalink: /
excluded_in_search: true
---

<div style="float:right; margin-bottom:50px;color:#666">
</div>

<div>
    <img src="assets/img/logo.png" style="width:50%; float:left">
</div><br><br>


# Singularity Hub Documentation

Hello there! It's so great that you want to use Singularity Hub. Let's get started. 

[![Gitter chat](https://badges.gitter.im/gitterHQ/gitter.png)](https://gitter.im/singularityhub/lobby)
[![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/paper-plos--one-blue.svg)](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0188511)


<br>

## Introduction
This section covers rationale, background, and frequently asked questions.

 - [Introduction](docs/introduction): Covers some background and basic information.
 - [Frequenty Asked Questions](docs/faq): Quick answers to some questions you might have on your mind.

## Getting Started

This is the official user guide for [singularity-hub.org](https://singularity-hub.org), providing more detail on how to build, manage, and deploy your images. For quick answers, see our [Troubleshooting](support/troubleshooting) page.

 - [Connect](docs/getting-started/connect): How to connect to Github and create automatic builds for your containers
 - [Recipes](docs/getting-started/recipes): should be named according to tags
 - [Build](docs/builds): your recipes via commit, manual, or GitHub deployment
 - [Interact](docs/interact): with your containers via the Singularity software

## Resources

- [singularity software](https://www.sylabs.io/guides/3.1/user-guide/) is going to be the controller for pulling and otherwise interacting with your images on Singularity Hub.
- [singularity global client](https://singularityhub.github.io/sregistry-cli) is another option if you want a manager included (a small database to keep track of things).
- [singularity registry server](https://singularityhub.github.io/sregistry) is an open source version of Singularity Hub if you want to deploy your own (that you can push to).
- [Troubleshooting](docs/support/troubleshooting) in case you need some help!
- [Regularity](docs/regulatory) including usage limits, terms of usage, and privacy.

Commit message:

adding notice
Signed-off-by: vsoch <vsoch@users.noreply.github.com>

index.md, after:

---
title: Singularity Hub Documentation
permalink: /
excluded_in_search: true
---

<div style="float:right; margin-bottom:50px;color:#666">
</div>

<div>
    <img src="assets/img/logo.png" style="width:50%; float:left">
</div><br><br>


# Singularity Hub Documentation

Hello there! It's so great that you are interested Singularity Hub.

[![Gitter chat](https://badges.gitter.im/gitterHQ/gitter.png)](https://gitter.im/singularityhub/lobby)
[![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/paper-plos--one-blue.svg)](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0188511)

<br>
<br>

{% include alert.html title="Notice" type="danger" content="Singularity
Hub is no longer online as a builder service, but exists as a read only archive. Containers built before April 19, 2021, are available at their same pull URLs" %}



<br>

## Introduction
This section covers rationale, background, and frequently asked questions.

 - [Introduction](docs/introduction): Covers some background and basic information.
 - [Frequenty Asked Questions](docs/faq): Quick answers to some questions you might have on your mind.

## Getting Started

This is the official user guide for [singularity-hub.org](https://singularity-hub.org), providing more detail on how to build, manage, and deploy your images. For quick answers, see our [Troubleshooting](support/troubleshooting) page.

 - [Connect](docs/getting-started/connect): How to connect to Github and create automatic builds for your containers
 - [Recipes](docs/getting-started/recipes): should be named according to tags
 - [Build](docs/builds): your recipes via commit, manual, or GitHub deployment
 - [Interact](docs/interact): with your containers via the Singularity software

## Resources

- [singularity software](https://www.sylabs.io/guides/3.1/user-guide/) is going to be the controller for pulling and otherwise interacting with your images on Singularity Hub.
- [singularity global client](https://singularityhub.github.io/sregistry-cli) is another option if you want a manager included (a small database to keep track of things).
- [singularity registry server](https://singularityhub.github.io/sregistry) is an open source version of Singularity Hub if you want to deploy your own (that you can push to).
- [Troubleshooting](docs/support/troubleshooting) in case you need some help!
- [Regulatory](docs/regulatory) including usage limits, terms of usage, and privacy.
